---
title: '#254 - My 26th Year'
date: '2015-08-09'
aliases:
  - '#254 - My 26th Year'
  - '#254'
draft: false
enableToc: true
permalink: '254'
---

Motto: 14 million 208 thousand 480 minutes! 14 million 208 thousand 480 moments of rife! 14 million 208 thousand 480 minutes! How do you measure, measure a life?

  
Last week I turned 27\. 

  
Here are some life tips from an old man:

* Buy two waterbottles you really like. Keep them in the fridge. When you finish drinking one, fill it and put it back in the refrigerator. You'll always have cold water on the ready and will wind up drinking more. Or be like me and buy 5 Nalgenes.
* Don't burn bridges. (that advice came to me from the time I set Jeff Bridges on fire)
* Buy a slow cooker or a pressure cooker. Also buy a single-serving style blender. Use them both very often.
* Patience is a virtue... but more often it's just _the only thing you can do_. Get good at it.
* Don't trust the lid.
* It's easier to stay in shape than it is to get in shape. Know your body. If you find more of it than you expect, take care of it before it becomes a problem. [Here's the basics](http://simplesciencefitness.com/#fundamentals).
* Don't stop to smell the roses. Bring the roses with you. Smell them as you go.
* Set goals. Achieve them. Learn from what you've achieved. Set more goals.
* Make references to R.E.N.T. when people don't expect you to.
* Think about the person you want to be. Think about what that person does. Think about how that is that different from what you do. Do those things.
* Learn how to use the tools you have available to you. Develop proficiency.
* Marry the right person, like me... but don't marry the same person I did. She's taken.
* Butter is usually better than margarine. Margarine is a lie.
* Say "Yes" more.
* Try being born handsome.

Now that you've learned everything there is to know, here's all the entertainment there is to enjoy:
  
  
Top 5: Days from My 26th Year

5\. 3/14/2015 - Melissa and I move to our new place  
4\. 9/10/2014 - IKEA opens near our place, this was a really great day   
3\. 8/1/2015 - My 27th birthday  
2\. 6/13/2015 - Dad's retirement surprise party, which mom totally pulled off  
1\. 5/03/2015 - My 1-year anniversary with my wife - climbing the Incline

  
Quote:

"Aaron I remember your dad telling you in high school to poop at school."

\- Josh -
