---
date: 2012-04-29T00:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - META
  - LIFE
  - TECH
title: '#3 - late night homework was bittersweet'
aliases: '#3 - late night homework was bittersweet'
draft: false
enableToc: true
permalink: '3'
---

# Motto: Hasta La Vista, homework

Apparently my tablet's Blogger app doesn't support colored text. I guess it will be pretty obvious which columns I write on my computer and which I write on some Android device. Speaking of Blogger and mobile devices - blogger natively supports a "built for mobile" version of your blog. Looking at this on my phone is actually very pleasant. I like that.

Another off-topic thing before I get to my main point for this column: I was playing around on Google Earth with my girlfriend last night. She was showing me places in Thailand she went to on her tablet. We were flying through the air looking at the lay of the land, 3-dimensional buildings, and many of the millions of photos available of pretty much every landmark you could think of. In doing this I realized, Google has given every single person with access to it superpowers. It might be a stretch to call them superpowers, but if you were to tell me when I was a kid that I'd be able to see anyplace in the world in a matter of minutes, I would have told you I must have become super-human. Later I would have been super disappointed.

Okay, onto the main event:

I just finished the LAST HOMEWORK ASSIGNMENT I AM EVER GOING TO GET (assuming I don't go to grad school eventually... which I may). Fittingly, it took me 4 hours and 5 sheets of paper to do it. I'm pretty sure I did every question correctly, so that's good. I wondered for years what it would feel like after I finished my last assignment. Would I set it down, stand up, and raise my fist triumphantly in the air? Would a tear of sadness fall onto the page? Would I dance the dance of passage? Or, would I go out for celebration?

I did none of those things. I smiled. Filed it away to be turned in. Walked to my bed with my tablet. Wrote this.

I guess it hasn't sunk in yet.

I guess it could also be due to the research papers I have yet to finish that are due this coming week. I have a really good start on them, but most of them aren't finished. Maybe after I finish those I'll raise my fist in the air triumphantly.

Man, I hope I'm not this dull to read normally.

# Top 5: Things I'm looking forward to (in chronological order)
5. Finishing the last of my assignments (papers)
4. Watching THE AVENGERS, surrounded by people I adore/nerds
3. Finishing my last final
2. Graduation
1. What lies beyond

## Quote:
> "0096 2251 2110 8105" - shortwave numbers station
