---
tags:
  - META
  - NERDCRED
date: 2019-08-18T00:00:00.000Z
title: '#376 - New Column!'
aliases: '#376 - New Column!'
draft: false
enableToc: true
permalink: '376'
---

I said I was interested in changing up The Column. This is me doing that. For future reference, this is the first post I'm writing after my move from Blogger to a GitHub Pages-hosted Jekyll-based personal blog using a barely-modified [minimal mistakes](https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/) theme. 

The new & improved Column is mostly for my own benefit. I'm excited to be able to write posts using **markdown**, which has been my flavor of the month for the past two or three months running. If you don't know what it is, don't worry about it. Mostly it makes *quite* excited to write more.

## The Implications

The format of all future posts may look more like this and less like posts #2 thru #375. Internal links to previous posts will (probably) stop working - and the formatting from those old posts may or may not look like garbage, I'm not too worried about it. I plan on keeping my **Top 5** and **Quotes** sections, so not much is changing. At least not on that front. You're going to probably start seeing a lot more structure in each given post, though. Section headings are a big reason I like Markdown & will be more prevalent. Also more prevalent: typos! At least if I write using my laptop.

Soon I'll figure out how to do internal links to section headers & include a table of contents with each Column.

## Recap of Personal Projects Currently in Flight

I've been doing a *lot* of stuff lately. In addition to the long-running "Life Tracker" and "30 Day Challenge" projects, I've decided recently to:

* Move the Column of Blogger (**done** as of today!)
* Revamp (and rename) the Life Tracker
	* This one alone could be enough to take up all of my time for a few months, I'm aiming much higher
* Learn how to do my new*(ish)* role at work
* Learn Python
	* I actually used Python the other day to accomplish something relating to this Blog - it was *super* gratifying
* Start to make additions to the house - we've lived here for a few years and haven't really *improved* it in any meaningful way
* Writing articles for my knowledge center ["Gillespedia"](http://gillespedia.com), which is a much worse-looking website than this (frankly they just exist in my Notion right now)
* Recording [Podcasts](http://wesceneamovie.com) with my buddies Richard & Guy 1
* Change up my workout routine (**done** a while back, but I've committed to continually changing it every 8 weeks, so now that's an on-going thing)
* Reduce, reuse, recycle - I've got more interest in taking up habits to minimize my impact on the environment
	* I'll write more about this eventually, it's another one of those unsexy solutions situations I wrote about in [Post #291](http://aarongilly.com/291-crackers-update-clarity-chromeos/)

I don't know what I'd do if I weren't doing stuff like this. Probably just get fat or something.

# Top 5: Benefits of the New Setup

0. I feel cooler
0. I get more control over how this looks (although right now it's very much *not* something I've got a handle on)
0. I have a local repository of my posts on my computer
0. I can write using Markdown, in a text editor, & do version control via [GitHub](http://www.github.com), all of which makes me feel cool
0. I get to practice using all of the above, so I could (in theory) apply those skills to other projects.

There will actually be better benefits once I figure out all my newfound powers. Like footnotes[^1].

# Quotes

> **You and Markdown, man. Ugh.**  
> *- Nick*

> **COWABUNGA!**  
> *- The Cookie Monster, who's quickly become my favorite philosopher*

[^1]: "See what I mean?"
