---
date: 2012-05-06T00:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - TV/MOVIES
  - TECH
title: '#4 - Awesomeness'
aliases: '#4 - Awesomeness'
draft: false
enableToc: true
permalink: '4'
---
Motto: As Google as it gets

A long time ago, somebody asked me "what was I passionate about". I didn't have a good answer for them then. I think I stuttered something about "movies" or something else that wasn't really an answer. I have a good answer for that now. I'm passionate about Google. Long story short. Google is the best at what it does, and it does a lot of things. Another blogger I conspire with wrote a great post about Google Plus. I agree with everything she said and would like to comment on the record how pretty she is. I could really go on forever about every little thing Google does and why it is awesome... but instead I'll move on to other awesome topics.

I watched THE AVENGERS. You can read any online review you want, but I think you don't need to know anything more than the following - Aaron's review of "The Avengers"

The Avengers
It was AWESOME.

That's it. No question about it. It was great and everyone should watch it. ([proof](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eOrNdBpGMv8)

Also in the news of the awesome: One week from today I will be the proud owner of a Bachelor's of Science from the University of Kansas in Electrical Engineering.

So that's cool. More on that at a later date.

Last awesome news: I just manually updated my Nexus to Android 4.0.4. I got tired of waiting for Verizon to start pushing the update out.

# Top 5: Superhero Movies of All Time ("The Incredibles" not included)
5. Thor
4. X-Men: First Class
3. Iron Man
2. The Dark Knight
1. The Avengers

## Quote:
> "My childhood disagrees with you" - Danielle Fuller, after I told her boybands weren't the awesomest thing ever
