---
title: "#462 - Ads and Other News"
date: 2024-10-11
tags:
  - META
description: 
draft: false
permalink: "462"
enableToc: true
---
I'm running an experiment with ads on my blog. 
# Adding Ads
For forever I've been anti-putting ads on my site. I thought: 
*why annoy the few people I know and love who read this just to make $2/year?*

Well, it turns out there are more than the "few people I know and love" who read this. If that's you, hi. 

It *also* turns out that my "$2/year" assumption ***may*** have been grossly wrong. I don't know. I've done some Googling and looked at the numbers for my site... and it's a complete mystery to me what amount of money I'm turning down by sticking to my "ads suck, why annoy people?" ethos.

So I'm running an experiment with ads on my blog.

> [!tldr]
> Between now and March 2025 I will let Google run ads on here

Come March, I will look at the numbers again and make a decision about whether or not it's "worth it" to me to keep this site ad-free. Perhaps this Column (like many before it, actually) will go down as a weird relic that reflects some very specific contemporaneous thing.
# Other News

## Semantic Canvas Plugin Update
I updated [my Obsidian Plugin](obsidian://show-plugin?id=semantic-canvas), implementing some feature requests. Turns out it's used by a few thousand people... which is cool. 

## Life Tracker Refactor Number 11 Continues
In [[461|Column #461]] I wrote about a "Rabbit Hole" wherein I decided to change something about the core structure of my [[PDW]]. That's still on-going, but at this point also sort of done? It's complicated. At some point I'll update that page with a new grand expose of how it works.

## Vacation
I need one. Maybe ads will help pay for one. Who knows. 

## New York Times Games
The New York Times games app is fun. Installed it. I'm not paying for it, which is a great way to get access to some games, but also not access to *infinite* games, which can be problematic.

# Top 5: Things That Only Make Noise in Movies
## 5. Punches
## 4. Lasers 
## 3. Arrows flying through the air
## 2. Guns being held
## 1. Swords being waved around slowly

# Quote:
> My favorite system is they make apps... very... a little medium, I don't know. Nevermind.
> - <cite>My 6 year old, admittedly you probably had to be there</cite>

---
Navigation:
[[461|previous post]]