---
alias: "#1 - Why do this thing again?"
date: 2012-03-16T00:10:00.000-07:00
author: Aarongilly
tags:
  - META
  - LIFE
modified_time: 2013-02-10T15:29:19.423-08:00
---
Hello there.

I decided to roll back to a previous habit in my life - this thing I did during high school to help pass the time and get my thoughts out of my head. I wrote them down on the internet (web) on some sort of a log (log). Basically, I am a hipster blogger. I blogged before blogging was cool. Before “microblogging” (twitter), before Facebook permeated everything about everybody’s online lives. I wanted something to get thoughts out of my head so I could move on with my day. This is why I had a column in high school. I posted stuff I thought about and a respectable number of people (read:2) would sometimes read it.

I got into college about five years ago and quickly found out I wasn’t bored enough to write much anymore. Most of my time was spent trying to understand calculus and physics or hanging out with my roommate/girlfriend. The importance of sitting down to write a formalized list of my thoughts and what’s been happening diminished with increasing levels of “whoa, I have other stuff to do!”

However, with changing times, life circumstances, technology, and social trends it seems possible again to go back to my old ways.

Tumblr Blogger + Android Phone ubiquity + smaller scope blogging + finally learning how to manage time = ability to start writing some again.

So, I decided to restart this thing I used to do… Slightly modified, of course.

I can’t tell you a lot about what this is going to ‘be’ or ‘do’, but I can tell you that it’s going to evolve into something and accomplish something. Even if that something is nothing.

Logical contradictions included free of charge.

## Self-Interview:

Q) So, why now?

Because I can. Because I realized that Tumblr is perfect for what I had in mind.

Q) What’s different now from before?

I’m older.

Q) Why do this thing again?

Because I felt like it. I can’t explain why. Get off my back.